## Agent based Macroeconomics
ACE (Agent-based Computational Economics) models are divided into two categories. The first category tries to mimic real-world economies in a highly detailed way, such as the EURACE project that models the European economy. The second category consists of stylized models that abstract from real economies in a number of ways. They contain only a small number of different agent types and interaction rules. The model presented in the paper belongs to the second category. The most influential models of this category are those of Wright, Russo et al., Dosi et al., and Gaffeo et al. Both D2008 and G2008 distinguish between three types of agents and index time by periods only, while the model presented in the paper indexes time by days and months to allow different actions to take place in different time intervals. The model at hand also follows the ACE methodology more rigorously: the agents' rules depend on purely local knowledge and not on any aggregate statistic. All transactions that occur in the model are explicitly taking place between individuals: there is always one particular agent being the buyer and one being the seller. In contrast, D2008 have parts of their transactions carried out at the aggregate level. The model presented in the paper follows Dosi et al. and Gaffeo et al. in a number of aspects, but differs in that it analyzes growth as a result of R&D and is concerned with basic macroeconomic relations in a non-growth environment. It makes use of only two different types of agents: households and firms.
